= Facets Release History

== 2.8.3 / 2009-04-02

New release which makes a few adjustments in Kernel core extensions,
adds a few new extensions and additions, plus other small improvements.

Changes:

* 7 New Core Extensions

  * Module#set has been added (from Sinatra).
  * Symbol#/ is added to be like String#/.
  * Struct#to_h is added and will ultimately replace Struct#attributes.
  * ObjectSpace#reflect routes method calls to Kernel context.
  * Hash#to_module converts a hash to mixin module (Jay Fields).
  * Kernel#dup! is same as #try_dup from extlib.
  * Add File#ext which is a useful variation of #extname (Lavir the Whiolet).

* 3 Core Extensions Renamed

  * renamed #set_from to #assign_from (alias remains until Kernel#set is considerd).
  * rename #populate to #assign and improve.
  * Kernel#instance_vars is now Kernel#instance and also more useful.

* 1 Core Deprecation

  * Removed #instance_eval hack.

* 2 Core Bug Fixes

  * #map_with_index now uses #each_with_index.
  * #to_proc_with_response spelling correction.

* 1 Core Adjustment

  * Aliased #metadef to #meta_def.

* 3 New More Libraries

  * casting_hash.rb provides CastingHash class, a hash with flexible keys and values.
  * prepend.rb allows for AOP-like inclusion of modules.
  * roman.rb provides simple roman numeral extensions to String and Integer.

* 5 More Improvements

  * Pathname#visit for iterating all entries beneath a path (chikamichi).
  * Pathname#to_str, b/c Pathname is basically a type of String (from extlib).
  * Range#at_rand in random.rb handles Float ranges (Lavir the Whiolet).
  * FileUtils#cp_rx provides controlled copies.
  * Stash class in stash.rb is improved and is now available as a stand-alone library.
  * ioredirect.rb has been removed as IORedirect no longer worked.
  * plugin_manager.rb has been removed. Use 'plugin' gem instead.


== 2.8.2 / 2009-02-22

This release fixes a bug by removing Numeric#size. Turns out that was a
core method already. It includes an "auditing" of the core enumerable
method which has led to a few modifications most noteable amoung them
renaming #map_detect to #find_yield and #compact_map to #purge.

Changes:

* 7 New Core Extensions

  * Add Enumerable#each_with_object.
  * Add #collapse which is a shortcut for flatten.compact.
  * Add Numeric#spacing (Mr. Groff)
  * Add Array#uniq_by! to complement Enumerable#uniq_by.
  * Add String#exclude? as opposite of #include?
  * Add Enumerable#exclude? as opposite of #include?
  * Add Proc#bind_to 

* 2 Extensions Renamed

  * Rename Enumerable#compact_map to #purge.
  * Rename Enumerable#map_detect to #find_yield.

* 4 Deprecations

  * Deprecate #inject!/#injecting in favor of #filter.
  * Deprecate Array#** as alias of #product.
  * Remove Numeric#size, as it was already used by core.
  * Spun tracepoint.rb off as a seprate library.

* 3 Other Changes

  * Integer#multiple? handles zero as an argument.
  * facets.rb is now dynamically loaded instead of code generated.
  * General imporvements to date.rb.


== 2.8.1 / 2009-12-25

This release simply fixes a few minor issues.

Changes:

* 1 New Standard Extension

  * Added Pathname#glob_relative to pathanme.rb.

* 3 Adjustments

  * Loading string/tab.rb no longer loads margin.rb or expand_tab.rb.
  * Fixed FileList method delegations.
  * Numeric#length and #size return +self+, not +to_s.length+.


== 2.8.0 / 2009-11-05

Facets 2.8 effectively completes the MORE library clean-up which peaked
with the previous 2.7 release. Another eight libraries have been deprecated,
a few of them spun-off to a separate project. However, this verison also
reverts a few of the deprecations made in the last version. These libs 
will remain in Facets's MORE library for the forseeable future.

This version effectively concludes the MORE library clean-up. The next, and
last version before Facets 3.0, will focus on "auditing" the CORE library.

Changes:

* 6 Libraries "Undeprecated":

  * ini.rb
  * linkedlist.rb
  * matcher.rb
  * memoizer.rb
  * roman.rb
  * semaphore.rb

* 5 Libraries Deprecated:

  * fileable.rb    (too esoteric)
  * ioredirect.rb  (needs better implementation)
  * coroutine.rb   (because of Fiber)
  * capsule.rb     (may be spun-off)
  * recorder.rb    (may be spun-off)

* 3 Libraries Spun-Off and Deprecated:

  * ansicode.rb           ansi
  * progressbar.rb        ansi
  * logger.rb             ansi

* Additonal Enhancements:

  * Kernel#extend can now take a block
  * Fixed kernel#d so it is useable
  * Added Range#at_rand (thanks to Tyler Rick)
  * Added Enumerable#map_detect (thanks to Scott Taylor)
  * String#/ calls File.join
  * Added String#newlines and String#cleanlines
  * String#titlecase includes apostrophe in words
  * BasicObject/BlankSlate is more compliant with 1.9.1 design
  * Enumerable#count can take multiple items, treats as logical Or
  * Class#class_extend extends class level, not class_eval
  * Integer#succ(n) becomes Fixnum#succ(n), succ.rb
  * Complete rewrite of Inheritor
  * Shellwords extensions have been reworked
  * Added String#similarity
  * Added Levenshtein String#edit_distance method
  * And other minor improvements (some thanks to ccjr)


== 2.7.0 / 2009-08-01

Facets 2.7 is the biggest release of Facets since 2.4. Rather then trickle-release these
changes over the course of the 2.6.x series, I made the decision to let 2.7 have them
all at once. In so doing this release nearly completes the process of trimming down
the MORE library to its essentials. Over 40 high-level libraries have been spun-off
as separate gems and/or deprecated. No doubt this is a big change for Facets, and the
transition may be a bit bumpy over the short-term, but I am certain that in the long-run
everyone involved will be better served. To help, I have listed the effected libraries
and the alternate gems availble to take their place.

A few other changes have also been made in the release that may also effect your code.
In particular you should note that #class_extension has been renamed to #class_extend
(require 'facets/class_extend'). In addition we have added a few new core methods such
as Exception#raised? and Symbol#thrown?.

Changes:

* Spun-Off Projects

These libraries have been deprectated from Facets entirely, but are available
as separate gems (or soon will be).

    LIBRARY               GEM
    --------------------  ------------------------------
    overload.rb           overload
    binreadable.rb        binaryio
    downloader.rb         downloader
    xoxo.rb               xoxo
    bicrypt.rb            bicrypt
    typecast.rb           typecast
    association.rb        association
    syncarray.rb          sync
    synchash.rb           sync
    paramix.rb            paramix
    crypt.rb              crypt3
    lrucache.rb           lrucache
    net/smtp_tls.rb       smtp_tls
    advisable.rb          advisable
    buildable.rb          buildable
    memoizer.rb           memoizer
    harray.rb             sparray
    sparse_array.rb       sparray
    iteration.rb          iteration
    interval.rb           stick
    infinity.rb           stick
    pool.rb               pool
    linkedlist.rb         linkedlist
    semaphore.rb          semaphore
    pqueue.rb             pqueue
    censor.rb             language
    matcher.rb            language
    basex.rb              radix
    minitar.rb            archive-tar-minitar -or- folio

* Spun-Off But Still Available

These libraries have been spun-off into stand-alone gems, but remain
available via Facets too. Ultimately some of these will be removed
from Facets too (in particular the ansi libraries).

    LIBRARY               GEM
    --------------------  ------------------------------
    ansicode.rb           ansi
    progressbar.rb        ansi
    logger.rb             ansi
    tracepoint.rb         tracepoint
    dictionary.rb         dictionary
    recorder.rb           recorder
    ostructable.rb        ostructable -or- openhash
    openobject.rb         openhash
    opencollection.rb     openhash
    opencascade.rb        openhash
    openhash.rb           openhash
    openmodule.rb         openmodule
    fileable.rb           fileable
    enumerablepass.rb     enumargs

* Deprecations Without Current Replacement

The libraries have been deprecated but do not yet have replacements.
Seperate gems for these are planned though.

    * bbcode.rb
    * ini.rb
    * settings.rb
    * xmlhash.rb

* Deprecations Merged Into CORE

These libraries have been deprecated because their functionality was merged into
the CORE library and/or made available in some another way.

    * 1stclassmethod.rb   #method! and #instance_method! are now part of CORE.
    * elementor.rb        #per has been added to CORE.
    * elementwise.rb      #ewise has been added to CORE.
    * consoleutils.rb     #ask is in CORE, for the rest see Ansi or Clio project.
    * attr.rb             Added Module#attr_setter to CORE, and separated the rest in MORE.

* General Deprecations

These libraries have simply been deprecated because they were found lacking in
some significant fashion.

    * nilstatus.rb        Poved rather useless, not to mention trivial.
    * heap.rb             Heap was just an alias for PQueue anyway. Use 'pqueue' instead.
    * dependency.rb       Other solutions exist that are much better (like Advisable).
    * classmethods.rb     #class_extend solution is more robust.
    * ziputils.rb         Have a look at Folio (gem install folio) for replacement.
    * unheritable.rb      Implementation is trivial and usefulness questionable.
    * instantise.rb       Replaced by instance_function.rb.

* Other Enhancements

    * Fixed Proc#curry to work with #define_method (Thanks to R.Potter)
    * Module#class_extension has been renamed to #class_extend (require 'facets/class_extend').
    * kernel#instance is no longer in core; now it is an extra monkey patch for #instance_eval.
    * Kernel#this has been removed. It is equivalent to 'method(__method__)'.
    * BlankSlate is now an alias for BasicObject, and will be deprecated in the future.
    * Kernel#method! and Module#instance_method! now use a global variable for their cache.
    * #object_state (old name was #state) has been added to core.


== 2.6.0 / 2009-07-03

Facets 2.6.0 removes htmlfilter.rb and cssfilter.rb due to licensing
incompatability. These scripts are now available as a separate package
called 'htmlfilter'. Also removed are a few MORE libs that were too
expiremental and/or not robust enough. Effectively this finishes up
the "spring cleaning" of the MORE lib mentioned a few releases back.

But it also marks a new start in trimming MORE down further. We have
decided to do this for three reasons 1) Some of the MORE libs would
be better served as separate projects. 2) Facets will become a tighter
library, primarily focused on extensions. And 3) all libraries involved
will become easier to maintain and thus more robust in the long run.

This release also fixes an important arity bug with the recently added
Module#extend method --one of the very few actual core overrides in Facets.

Changes:

* 7 Major Enhancements

    * Removed htmlfilter.rb due to licensing issues.
    * Also removed cssfilter.rb ('gem install htmlfilter' now)
    * Removed rwdelegator.rb, simply not a robust solution.
    * Removed buildable.rb, api is too confusing.
    * Removed meta.rb which was not very useful and too expiremental anyway.
    * Removed prototype.rb, which needs it's own project.

* 3 Minor Enhancements

    * Removed Kernel#__HERE__ as it simply cannot work.
      (Ruby 1.9.2 will offer #source_location for the same, btw)
    * Returned binding/opvars to core.
    * Added Integer#length as suggested by Victor H. Goff III.

* 1 Bug Fix

    * Fixed arity issue with Module#extend.


== 2.5.2 / 2009-04-07

Facets 2.5.2 is a simple maintentance release which fixed a few issues
in the new to_hash.rb library. This release also added String#lowercase
and String#uppercae.

Changes:

* 1 Major Enhancement

    * added string/uppercase and lowercase

* 1 Minor Enhancement

    * adjustments to to_hash.rb


== 2.5.1 / 2009-03-05

Facets 2.5.1 fixes a few bugs, makes some small but nice additions
and improves 1.9 compatibility.

The most important addition to make note of is Object#extend, which has
been overridden to allow a block parameter. This is one of only two or three
actual "monkey patches" in all of Facets. The block, when provided,
is used to create an annonymous module which then extends the reciever.
This is a "good practice" way to extend objects, rather than using class_eval
on the singleton class.

Special thanks to Erik Veenstra, Pit Capitan and especially Sandor Szücs
for their contributions to this release.

Changes:

* 7 Major Enhancements

    * added Hash#group_by_value (thanks to Erik Veenstra)
    * added String#file
    * added Hash#new_with (Pit Capitan)
    * added module/extend.rb, now can take a block.
    * added hook.rb
    * added to_h_auto
    * overhauled to_hash.rb, now has multiple methods

* 10 Bug Fixes

    * corrected ostruct.rb to test for frozen state on updates
    * fixed String#left_align
    * fixed conflict between test_name.rb and test_arguments.rb
    * fixed Enumreable#split when reciever is empty array
    * fixed coruption of reciever by Hash#collate (thanks to Tilo Sloboda)
    * fixed Array#to_h, h={} was not initialized
    * fixed test of Module#conflict according ruby19
    * fixed Hash#dearray_singluar_values
    * association.rb stores reference when using #new
    * changed Array#product to make it compatible to ruby 19, deleted block parameter

* 5 Minor Enhancements

    * split enumerable/collect into map_with_index and compact_map
    * improved Array#to_h for 1.9 using flatten(1)
    * Dictionary#replace can take regular Hash too
    * move test_to_hash.rb from more to core
    * Doc'd that UnboundMethod#name returns Symbol in 1.9, but String in 1.8


== 2.5.0 / 2008-11-23

Facets 2.5.0 is an important milestone in the development of Facets.

This release has been tested against Rails' ActiveSupport library.
As long as Facets is loaded after ActiveSupport, everything
should work fine. Of course, there's no counting for real world
trials, but all ActiveSupport testcases pass under this scenario.

Secondly, this release is the first of two (or three) down-scaling
releases intended to remove all the remaining "excess" from the
library. This is being done for a variety of reasons. Some scripts
are substantial enough to be one their own and have been spun-off
into separate largely compatible projects. In this release:

  If you were using...   Use this project instead...

    annotations.rb         Anise

    bytes.rb               RichUnits
    times.rb

    command.rb             Clio
    consoleutils.rb

A few others scripts have been deprecated, without an alternative
recourse, simply because they were too weak, such as  uploadutils.rb,
or highly experimental, such as chain.rb and eventhook.rb.

Although this release constitutes an over all slimming down of Facets,
two excellent new libraries have been added.

1) *ini.rb* by Jeena Paradies. While YAML is frequently used by
Rubyists for configuration files, a full-on serializer like YAML
is often overkill. INI files provide a lightweight solution
specifically geared for configuration.

2) *filter.rb* by Brian Candler offers lazy evaluation chains of
Enumerable methods. This is an elegant way to optimize contiguous
maps, selections, etc. --effective even on infinite enumerators.
(Note, the name of this library may be changed in the next release.)

While work remains to be done, I am happy to say, Facets is
finally beginning to approach the level of solidity I set out to
achieve just over a year ago. Thank the Maker!

Special thanks to Brian Candler, Jeena Paradies and Tyler Rick.

Changes:

* 9 Major Changes

    * added Brian Candler's Enumerator::Filter
    * added sparse_array.rb (was old harray.rb)
    * added Jeena Paradies' ini.rb
    * renamed CacheDelegator to Memoizer
    * renamed DictionaryMatcher to just Matcher
    * deprecated bytes.rb and times.rb (use RichUnits instead)
    * deprecated uploadutils.rb; ziputils.rb will be (use Folio)
    * deprecated annotations.rb (use Anise instead)
    * deprecated command.rb and consoleutils.rb (use Clio instead)

* 5 Minor Changes

    * deprecated chain.rb (very expiremental)
    * deprecated eventhook.rb (moved to ToadCode project)
    * deprecated tagiter.rb (moved to ToadCode project)
    * moved Hash#symolize_keys and #stringify_keys to core lib
      (still recommend #rekey instead though)
    * switched to git as of 2.4.5

* 4 Bug Fixes

    * memoize.rb, cache was at class-level, now at instance-level
    * binding/caller.rb, fixed require for callstack.rb
    * fixed missing require in string/tabto.rb
    * Fixed some bugs with Time#ago/Time#hence not changing years
      correctly when you changed months.
      (For example, Time.utc(2008, 1, 1).ago(12, :months) incorrectly
      returned 2009-01-01 instead of 2007-01-01.)
      Changed Time#ago/Time#hence to still work if passed negative number.


== 2.4.5 / 2008-10-02

Facets 2.4.5 is a maintaince release. This release is notable however in that
it will likely be the last that to use SVN. Facets will be switching to Git.
Also, some libraries that have been flagged "to be deprecated" for some time will
finally be so.

Changes:

* 8 Major Enhancements

    * Re-added date.rb to lore library, and removed from core.  (#r1014)
    * Much improved date.rb extension now in Lore library.  (#r1027)
    * Deprecated kernel/suppress. Use Exception.suppress from now on.  (#r1040)
    * Deprecated string/style.rb. Use English project instead.  (#r1074)
    * Console namespace is no longer supported (for Ansicode).  (#r1077)
    * enumerable/mode.rb, Enumerable#mode returns array since there can be more than one.  (#r1079)
    * OpenCascade automatically creates nodes, use foo? to query.  (#r1056)
    * Change #index_of to #index which now takes a block.

* 14 Minor Enhancements

    * OpenStruct.new can now take a default block, like Hash.new.
    * Moved variablize methods out of metaid.rb and into separate files (string/ and symbol/).  (#r1042)
    * Added Time#advance.  (#r1046)
    * Speed up of Integer odd/even methods.  (#r1057)
    * Array#index now takes a block (this is a core override).  (#r1059)
    * Spilt file/write.rb into separate method files (append, create, writelines).  (#r1073)
    * Modified Enumerable#split to behave like String#split.  (#r1076)
    * hash/op.rb, split into separate method files.  (#r1081)
    * Added string/modulize. string/methodize handles path names now too.  (#r1085)
    * Class#cattr is now part of core.  (#r1089)
    * Modified Enumerable#split to behave like String#split.  [minor]
    * Removed Rope class. If anything this will have a separate project.
    * Added doc/news.html and doc/authors.html to website (temporarily?).
    * Added zlib.rb to Lore library.

* 7 Bug Fixes

    * OpenStruct#to_h dups internal table.  (#r1015)
    * Fixed require of string/xor in bicrypt.rb.  (#r1039)
    * integer/odd.rb, fixed Ruby 1.9 condition.  (#r1080)
    * class/cattr_*.rb fix require bug
    * opencascade.rb, fixed bug when accessing sub-hash.
    * typecast.rb, fixed require for string/methodize.
    * Fixed Pathname#glob to ensure use of ::File.


== 2.4.4 / 2008-09-01

Facets 2.4.4 includes a major bug fix that caused Facets not to load properly,
having to do with a Time extension. The problem has been fixed. In addition,
this release put Facets only a few pending adjustments away from full
Rails/ActiveSupport compatibility.

Changes:

* 10 Major Enhancements

    * Added string/mask providing powerful string manipulation.  (#997)
    * BasicObject is now just a synonm for BlankSlate unless Ruby 1.9.  (#1000)
    * Added Symbol#plain?, Symbol#query? and Symbol#setter?  (#1011)
    * Removed Time#to_date.
      * Due to clobberd RI Docs (!) this should have been in Lore lib date.rb
      * Moved to Lore date.rb. (#1012)
    * Re-added date.rb to lore library, and removed from core.  (#1014)
    * Much improved date.rb extension now in Lore library.  (#1027)
    * Deprecated kernel/suppress. Use Exception.suppress from now on.  (#1040)
    * Improved date.rb and moved to LORE library, and removed from CORE.  [major]
    * Deprecated kernel/suppress. Use Exception.suppress from now on.  [major]
    * Deprecated String#to_time.
      * This method reqiures the loading of a number of other standard libs.
      * We can reconsider adding it again if we decide these other libs should be core.
      * Or if we find a more suitable way to define the method.

* 17 Minor Enhancements

    * Moved style.rb to string/stylize.rb  (#998)
    * Renamed string/subtract to string/op_sub.
      Old name will remain for time being for compatability. (#1002)
    * Module#instance_method_define? now only applies to public methods.  (#1003)
    * Array#index accepts a block (one of the few core overrides).  (#1004)
    * Moved Hash#<< from hash/update.rb to hash/op_push.rb  (#1005)
    * Add facets class files (eg. facets/string) have been made dynamic.  (#1013)
    * Moved variablize methods out of metaid.rb and into separate files (string/ and symbol/).  (#1042)
    * Added Time#advance.  (#1046)
    * Added qua_class.rb. Yea. It really is my favorite.
    * Added simple functional test that loads all of Facets.
    * Added a benchmark for measuring how fast Facets loads. (Core < 1sec!)
    * Made Module#alias_method_chain a public method (for better Rails support).
    * Wrapped Nilclass#to_f in 1.9 condition.
    * float/round.rb redirects to numeric/round.rb.
    * numeric/float.rb holds rounding methods for all classed Numeric, Integer and Float.
    * Replaced Kernel#instance_exec with Mauricio's version.
    * Improved String#each_char to work like Ruby 1.9.
      * This loads strscan.rb.
      * It is wrapped in a 1.9 condition.

* 8 Bug Fixes

    * Hash#<< now returns self  (#1001)
    * OpenStruct#to_h dups internal table.  (#1015)
    * Fixed require of string/xor in bicrypt.rb.  (#1039)
    * Fixed facets.rb to use relative paths.
    * Fixed cgi.rb (CGI is a class not a module).
    * OpenStruct#to_h dups internal table.  [bug]
    * Fixed require of string/xor in bicrypt.rb.  [bug]
    * date.rb (stamp) fixed ref to constant FORMAT.


== 2.4.3 / 2008-08-14

Facets is almost fully interoperable with ActiveSupport and Ruby 1.9.
We will continue to improve this interoperability in upcoming releases.

As a REMINDER, Facets 2.4+ now encourages:

  require 'facets'

This is better than cherry-picking methods. It may seem counter-intuitive,
but it actually proves more advantages to do this for the sake of
improved interoperability. The practice of cherry-picking can become
problematic if other dependent libraries have cherry-picked different
methods. In those cases these distinctions go unaccounted and untested.

Note that this release does not include a setup.rb script. We are working
on a new version of this script, which we plan to include in the next release.

This release give special thanks to the following people for their contributions:

* Ken Bloom
* Nick Caruso
* Evgeniy Dolzhenko
* Andy Freeman
* Tomasz Muras
* Dave Myron

And of course, to anyone else I failed to mention that has contributed.

Changes:

* 22 Major Enhancements

    * Changed File#rewrite to not use the in-place change of the string.
    * Deprecate Hash#keys_to_s and Hash#keys_to_sym.
    * Renamed Class#to_pathname and #to_methodname to #pathize and #methodize.
    * Deprecated Console:: namespace for ANSICode.
    * Added Time#trunc and Time#round to Core.
    * Added Ken Bloom's DictionaryMatcher class (will be renamed in future version)
    * Added Array#recursively and fixed bug in Hash#recursively.
    * Added kernel/instance method which provides a fluent interface to private object space.
    * Moved Mentalguy's lazy.rb to core!
    * Added Indexable and Stackable to core.
    * Deprecated ruby.rb, which was a sort 1.9 compatibility layer.
    * The ruby.rb methods were moved to core, wrapped in a 1.9 condition.
    * BasicObject is now just a synonm for BlankSlate unless Ruby 1.9.  [major]
    * Moved Indexable and Stackable to core.
    * Deprecated Console:: namespace for ANSICode.
    * Added Symbol#plain?, Symbol#query? and Symbol#setter?  [major]
    * Deprecate Hash#keys_to_s and Hash#keys_to_sym.
      * These are the original versions of these methods.
      * But now we can use #rekey(:to_s) and #rekey(:to_sym) instead.
    * Renamed arguments.rb and CLI::Arguments to argvector.rb and Argvector.
    * Added optional argument to Dictionary#first and #last.
    * Moved binding/opvars from core to more.
    * Added hash/symbolize_keys and stringify_keys.
    * Added file/split_root.

* 20 Minor Enhancements

    * Improved File#rootname --it is now more robust.
    * Made FileUtils#whereis a module_function again.
    * While not perceptible to an end user, there are now 3 divisions: lib/core, lib/lore, lib/more.
    * Created Lore library to house extensions to Ruby's standard library.
    * Re-added facets class files (eg. facets/string) and are now dynamic.
    * Added block to Array#index.
      * This is one of the few core overrides in Facets.
      * It is a feature already in Ruby 1.9.
    * Added Jim Weirich's BlankSlate class.
      * This is a temporary measure be compatible w/ AcitveSupport's BasicObject.
    * Split kernel/load.rb into require_all.rb and require_local.rb.
    * Modified script/test to display $LOAD_PATH before running tests.
    * Split module/alias.rb up into alias_accessor, alias_module_function and alias_method_chain.
    * Added #bump method to VersionNumber class.
    * Module#instance_method_defined? now only applies to public methods.  [minor]
    * Renamed string/subtract to string/op_sub.
      Old name will remain for time being for compatability. [minor]
    * Added #glob and #glob_first as extensions to Pathname.
    * Moved style.rb to string/stylize.rb  [minor]
    * Added string/mask providing powerful string manipulation.  [major]
    * Added warning to bytes to use RichUnits instead.
    * Added niclass/ergo whic points back to kernel/ergo.
    * Updated warn line fore eventual deprecation of fileshell and arguments.*
    * Added facets-load.rb to allow old school cherry picking.*
      * Between 2.0 and 2.4 require 'facets' simply added core to LOAD_PATH.
      * Starting with 2.4 it loads all of core automatically instead.
      * facets-load.rb provides a way to use the old behavior.
            require 'facets-load.rb
            require 'kernel/with'
            require 'symbol/to_proc'
      * This adds the path to the end of LOAD_PATH to prevent any load conflicts.

* 4 Bug Fixes

    * Fixed Time#hence changed years when changing months.
    * Fixed Time#hence to flip year correctly when adding months.
    * Hash#<< returns self
    * Fixed string/pathize.


== 2.4.2 / 2008-08-12

Just some more of those great old work your ass off changes.

Changes:

* Major Enhancements

    * Added Ken Bloom's DictionaryMatcher class from Ruby Quiz #103.
      (Note this class will probably be renamed in the future.)
    * Changed File#rewrite to not use the inplace change of the string.
      * If you were using the function, change your code to use File#rewrite! instead.
      * Or, modify your code ot use the new behavior.
      * This change can make for a slippery bug, so be sure to check for it!
    * Moved live.rb to facets-live.rb.
    * Added kernel/instance method which provides a fluent interface to private object space.

* 5 Minor Enhancements

    * Added sow generation forms.
    * Spilt Time#trunc into separate file.
    * Remove old log files --shouldn't version control these.
    * Added note to FileList to add glob options parameter.
    * Added optional argument to Dictionary#first and #last.

* Other Enhancements

    * Move "lore" tests to test/lore (lore are extensions to Ruby's standard lib).
    * Added test/core, test/lore and test/more.
    * Added time/test_round.rb
    * Added array/recursively.
    * Added time/round.
    * Time#to_date makes the public (it already existed in Ruby!)
    * Fixed Time#hence to flip year correctly when adding months.
    * Work on documentation using new Sow system.
    * Moved meta.rb to more/kernel/meta.rb and merged facets/core.rb into facets.rb.
    * Added more/kernel directory --hey not every extension can be core.
    * Adjusted loadpath and moved lazy.rb to core!
    * Moved remaing files to subdirectory locations.
    * Moved most core libs to core/.
    * Move most more files to the more directory.
    * Added lore and more directories.
    * Added facets/core directory. Yes, I'm spiliting the lib again.
      * Loadpath will be used, so user inteface will stay the same.
      * Setup.rb will be adjusted to recognaize loadpath.
    * Removed Rope class. If anything this will have a separate project.
    * Moved setup.rb to script/setup.
      * This will either be replaced with configure/install scripts.
      * Or, depend on a separate ruby setup.rb project.
    * Added recorder.rb to consider in work directory.
    * Added admin directory.
    * Added "TO BE DEPRECATED" message to ruby.rb.
    * Added all methods from ruby.rb as individual core methods.
      * These are the methods that overlap with 1.9.
      * They are encased in 'unless RUBY_VERSION' caluses.
    * Imporved file/rootname --now much more robust.
    * Added Kernel#to_yamlfrag to yaml.rb as way to output yaml w/o the "---" header.
      * Perhaps not the most robust solution, but okay for now.
      * Maybe a poor name for the method, but you got a better one?
    * Made FileUtils#whereis a module_function again like it used to be. Because:
      (1) that seems to be the way most other FileUtils methods are (cd, mkdir, cp, ...) and the most
          obvious way that users would WANT to use FileUtils: FileUtils.whereis("ruby").
      (2) I see module_function used in other comparible parts of Facets: UploadUtils, ConsoleUtils,
          ZipUtils, FileUtils#safe_ln, ...
      (3) My code that relied on the old module_function behavior was breaking
          What were you thinking changing it?? ;)


== 2.4.1 / 2008-04-03

This release takes aim at improving compatability with ActiveSupport.
It also reintroduces an improved paramix.rb.

Changes:

* 4 Major Enhancements

    * A much improved paramix.rb has been returned to the library.
      * There a no longer capitialize module methods at all.
      * Use Module#[] and mixin_params[] instead.
    * Deprecated behavior.rb. It was not robust.
    * Added basex.rb, for working in any encoding base using any character set (base62 is the default).

* 3 Minor Enhancements

    * Comparing to ActiveSupport, found 63 extension clashes, but most are due to 1.9 features.
      The rest should be compatible.
    * Reatomized a number of Kernel and String methods. Reatomization is nearly complete.
    * Continued work on reatomizing core extensions (nearly complete now).


== 2.4.0 / 2008-03-24

Facets 2.4 is a major step forward for Facets. It is perhaps the release
that 2.0 should have been, but of course it took the actual 2.0 release
to make 2.4 possible. Some annoyances you may have encountered in updating
your code to 2.0 are now fixed. And from 2.4 on, Facets will now be
settling down into simple refinement release cycles for a while.

The main change under the hood is to bring everything up to the top
lib/facets/ directory. No longer are the libraries sorted by category.
I had done so for a long time to make it easier to track the various libs,
but in the end it was only making it more diffcult to deal with build tools
and packaging.

For the end-user, the largest change is a new emphisis on:

  require 'facets'

This is better than cherry-picking methods. It may seem counter-
intuitive, but it actually proves more advantantages to do this
for the sake of interoperability than the practice of cherry-picking.
The reason is simply because others may have cherry-picked different
methods, and those distinctions go unaccounted and untested.

Also with this release, to bolster the use of require 'facets',
some lack-luster extensions have been deprecated and namespace usage
has been improved. In addition, we are getting very close to full
ActiveSupport, and Ruby 1.9, interoperability. Expect this
to be complete in the next minor release or two.

Changes:

* Enhancements

    * String#to_re and String#to_rx have swapped default behaviors. #to_rx escapes, #to_re does not.
    * The Console namespace is being deprecated. command.rb and arguments.rb now use CLI naemspace.
    * #compare_on and #equate_on are now "mixin methods" Comparable() and Equateable().
    * Enumerable#product, #combintations and #permutations have change to be Ruby 1.9 compatible.
    * thread.rb, map_send, et al, block is passed to send instead of yielding on result.
    * namespace.rb has been renamed to methodspace.rb.
    * Ruby 1.9 defined a new Proc#curry method, so Facets version has been made compatible.
    * The old curry method is now called #partial, as in "partial application".
    * Deprecated interface.rb. Perhaps a better approach but nonetheless extraneous.
    * Deprecated paramix.rb. A better way is to use a capitialized methods. (Perhaps a lib for that?)
    * Brought back a few web related libs, htmlfilter.rb and cssfilter.rb in particular.
    * camelcase and snakecase are core extensions. For specialized styles use String#style in style.rb.
    * Renamed ArgVector to CLI::Arguments
    * Moved one_nine.rb to ruby.rb
    * Moved test/test_one_nine.rb to test/test_ruby.rb.
    * Updated requires for "one_nine" to just "ruby" b/c of backports to 1.8.7.
    * Added warning to Rick Kilmers's unit system.
        * Moving Rich Kilmers's units system to it's own package.
        * Three are alternate unit systems available and Facets should work with any of them.
        * Will keep a fair amount of the Time extensions though.
    * Moved nil/status.rb to nilstatus.rb
    * Got rid of Method#curry and Method#partial since they just convert to Procs.
    * Made op_esc.rb a separate module rather thanan extension.
    * Deprecated with_reader, with_writer and with_accessor for attr_singleton_reader, &c.
    * Deprecated Hash#pairs_at. Use Hash#slice instead from core.
    * Fixed the namespaces of some extensions.
    * Added prime directory and files.
    * Removed all "prime" extension files.
    * Move mattr to module.
    * Fixed require bug in time methods.
    * Reverted memomize.rb back to original code --will come back to later.
    * Added stylizer.rb to replace stylize.rb
    * Array #recursively is not only called #traverse.
    * Added case/stylize methods to more/facets/string.
    * Renamed more/string/facets/titlecase to captialize_all.
    * Added uri and xoxo tests.
    * Progressive work on memoize and elementor.
    * Functor no longer privatizes =, == and =~.
    * Properly split conversion.rb.
    * Some string methods extracted from stylize.rb.
    * Moved random.rb to more/.
    * Renamed namespace.eb to methodspace.rb.
    * Moved autoreload to more/facets/kernel.
    * Removed old curry.rb.
    * Added cgi.rb with some standard extensions.
    * Deprecated paramix.rb.
    * Added xmlhash.rb and returned uri.rb extensions to the library.
    * Added #method_name to Date class.
    * Remove cut-bases AOP, now in it's own library.
    * Converted compare_on.rb to Paramtric Mixins.
    * Split fileutils up into individual methods.
    * Renamed console.rb to what it should be consoleutils.rb.
    * Update to command.rb integrating MasterCommand and Command into a single class.
    * Added options back into multiglob_r.
    * Improved cloneable.rb to be a true deep dup/clone mixin using Ken Bloom's suggestion.
    * Added tasksystem.rb.
    * Added enumerable/combinations.
    * Added openhash and tracepoint.

* Bug Fixes

    * Fixed bug with #peek in stackable.
    * Fixed bug in Kernel#object_hexid.
    * Fixed bug in multiglob_r so it will NOT follow symlinks.
    * Fixed test_keyize.rb.

* Adminstrative Changes

    * This was a fairly large and fast-paced update, so unfortunately not all changes are listed this time.
    * Added ri generation to setup.rb.
    * Updated README and allowed doc/ to be included in package.
    * Finally completed removal of all embedded tests.
    * Organized all libs between core, more, class and mixin.


== 2.3.0 / 2008-02-01

Amoung other changes with this release, cloneable.rb is now a true deep
dup/clone mixin; tracepoint.rb returns to the library.

Changes:

* 4 Major Enhancements

    * Cloneable provides true deep cloning.
    * Moved hash_keyize.rb to CORE as hash/keyize.rb.
    * Added tracepoint.rb back to the library.
    * Added hash/collate.

* 3 Bug Fixes

    * Fixed multiglob_r bug, so it will NOT follow symlinks.
    * Added a couple of missing binding requires.
    * Fixed test_keyize.rb.

* 6 Admistrative Changes

    * Reorganized library into smaller groups: core, more, class and mixin.
    * Remove admin/svn subdir.
    * Remove admin/log.
    * Add admin tasks.
    * Moved admin tasks to admin directory.
    * Added admin directory.



== 2.2.1 / 2007-12-22

This release get rid of the underlying methods subdir.
All method redirects are now in core, to ensure there
are no more name clashes.

Changes:

* Method Renames

  * Moved string/format.rb to string/wrap.rb.
  * Updated String#brief.
  * Moved binding/cflow.rb to caller.rb.
  * Moved core hash/keyize to more.

* Other Enhancements

  * Fixed up binding extensions.

* Administrative Adjustments

  * Got rid of methods subdir. All method redirects are in core/.
  * Moved doc/wiki to apiwiki b/c of Rubyforge's wiki.
  * Removed doc/api dir.
  * Added wiki.
  * Renamed a couple test tasks.
  * Update per-module/class files.
  * Moved methods and groups task to trash.
  * Added test class/remove_descendents.rb.
  * Added all remaining per-method require libs from methods/ (will need to wrok through these over time).
  * Added trash work directory.
  * Adjust text according to per-method file changes.
  * All hash method, but the conversion methods, are now represented in core/facets/hash.
  * Added a few more Hash per-method files.
  * Add per-method libs for hash.
  * Updated facets/string.rb.
  * Renamed ROLLRC to facets.roll.


== 2.2.0 / 2007-12-13

This release provides improved rdocs and prepares facets for use with Ruby 1.9.
It also adds Matthew Harris' duration.rb library. Bug thanks to Matthew!

Changes:

* Additions

    * Added Matthew Harris' Duration class.
    * Added Hash#slice and Hash#except (didn't we have this before?)
    * Added registerable.rb, updated history.
    * Added #include_as to facets/namespace.rb.
    * Added op.rb to string.rb.
    * Added String/op.rb with String#- method.

* Method Renames and Reorganizations

    * The name Array#unzip didn't makes sense, it was renamed to #modulate (though #collate seems better?)
    * Renamed Enumerable#collate to #mash (Map hASH); #collate and #graph remain aliases for the time being.
    * Renamed accessor #attributes to #instance_attributes.
    * Renamed Enumerable #collate to #mash. (old name, along with graph, will be an alias for time being)
    * Divided enumerable/collect into split.rb and each.rb as well.
    * Moved mapsend.rb to thread.rb.
    * Updated mapsend.rb to focus on threads.
    * Moved continuation extensions to more lib.

* Deprecations

    * Deprecated Module#include_and_extend. Just use both silly.
    * More lib pp_s.rb has been removed. Use #pretty_inspect instead.
    * Removed continuation from core.
    * Removed pp_s.rb (use pretty_inspect) add continuation.rb.
    * Remove kernel/require_esc.rb.

* Other Enhancements

    * integer/bitmask.rb has changed a bit --pun intended ;) Deprecated some methods and now use "~" instead of "-" to clear bits.
    * Split binding extensions up a bit more finely --eval.rb sprouted here.rb, self.rb and defined.rb.
    * Move Time#stamp out of conversion.rb and into time/ dir, and remove to_s alias.
    * Preliminary addition of Matthew Harris' excellent duration.rb lib (will integrate with times.rb better in future).
    * Minor edit to basicobject.rb in light of 1.9.
    * Minor adjustments to lazy.rb to fix warnings by Ruby 1.9.
    * Added if clauses to handle upcoming Ruby 1.9 gracefully. Facets should now be just about ready for use with 1.9.

* Documentation Enhancements

    * A lot of rdoc updates to core extensions --as promised ;)
    * Just about every method now has at least a brief explinaiton and an example.

* Administrative Adjustments

    * Moved task/config.yaml to meta/ per new Ratch.
    * Moved task/special to task/doc.
    * Updated todo list (in dev/).
    * Copied log/history.rd to CHANGES.
    * Removed log/history.rd and log/todo.rd
    * Fixed stylize.rb for use with 1.9 (fixed case statement).
    * Separated kernel/returning, now that #tap will be in 1.9.
    * Updated facets.rb for use with 1.9.
    * Separated time/stamp.rb.
    * Divided binding up into a few more pieces.
    * Fixed kernel/instance to play nice with 1.9.
    * Added test for string/op.rb.
    * Added test_collect.rb split-offs and test_mash inplace of test_collate.
    * Cleanup test headers.
    * Added 1.9 check in continuation/create.rb.
    * Add a couple new task for rdoc gen.
    * Added nbsp to quickopts task.
    * Work on website using siteparts.


== 2.1.3 / 2007-11-28

Changes:

    * Fixed minor oddity in Enumerable/collate.
    * Fixed major issue with 2.1.2 where it would not core facets correctly.
    * Array#to_h used flatten, but it needs to be flatten(1).
    * Fixed minor issue with collate.
    * Move core/main.rb back to core/facets.rb as it conflicts with lib in more/.


== 2.1.2 / 2007-11-22

Changes:

    * Dir::multiglob no longer handels -/+ modifiers. Use FileList instead.
    * Fixed task/install script.
    * Added copyright notice to COPYING file.
    * Renamed LICENSE to COPYING according to offical GPL policy.
    * Added exception#details.


== 2.1.1 / 2007-11-16

Changes:

    * Fixed bug in command.rb that clobbered options.
    * Added kernel/ergo.rb.
    * Removed debug code.
    * Fixed options bug in command.rb
    * Moved nilclass/ergo to kernel/ergo.
    * Update Kernel#ergo.
    * Added pp_s.rb (Questionable addition, but we'll leave it for now.)
    * Added validation.rb. This is here for Nitro's sake --better techinques may replace it in the future.
    * Removed tracepoint.rb.
    * Added Console::Logger to logger.rb (may be separated in future).
    * Added option arity to command.rb.


== 2.1.0 / 2007-11-10

Major changes include a new and much-improved command.rb,
a new BiCrypt class for simple two-way crypotgraphy,
as well as attr_reader!, attr_writer! and attr_accessor!
for flag attributes, plus alias_xxx methods for all
attr_xxx methods.

Changes:

    * command.rb has been completely rewritten. The API has changed completely!
    * There is no longer a Commmand::Optoins class. Use Console::Arguments instead.
    * Added BiCrypt class to crypt.rb for simple two-way encyrption.
    * module/attr.rb now has attr_reader!, attr_writer! and attr_accessor!
    * All attr_xxx methods have coresponding alias_xxx methods.
    * Fixed bug in Enumerable#cluster_by which returned nil instead of [].
    * Added UniversalOptions module.
    * Fixed minor bug in arguments.rb that prevented proper repeat parameters.
    * Fixed bug in to_console.
    * Moved common alias methods from attr.rb to alias.rb.
    * MasterCommand now passes (args, opts), until 1.9 is main stream.
    * Added BiCrypt class for simple two-way encryption.

    * Added dev/test
    * Renamed RELEASE to WHATSNEW
    * Added injecting test and cleaned up.
    * Fixed bud in enumerable/cluster_by (returned nil instead of []).
    * Cleaned up enumerable/permutation.rb
    * minor space removal
    * Complete rewrite of command.rb.
    * Added comment for potential future #is.
    * Added "tester" attribues attr_xxx!. Also added alias_xxx for all attr_xxx methods.
    * Added top-level log directory.

    * Added -q option to zip method in ZipUtils.

    * Remove #q reference from RELEASE.
    * Cleanup of test_initializer.rb.
    * VERSION 2.0.5
    * Fixed return bug in hash/op.rb.
    * Ok. #p is back. This will in fact be in 1.9, so we're good.
    * Allowed Class#initializer to return the attribute names.
        * This should allow things like: 'private *initializer(...)'

    * Added missing (*args) in #initialize on Hash.new.
    * Renamed #p to #q, because of multiple args problem.
        * I don't know how Ruby 1.9 plans to handle multiple args.
        * Will deprecate for 1.9 anyway so doesn't matter much.
    * Fixed package name in icli.yaml.
    * Added name field to meta/icli.yaml.
    * Added meta/icli.yaml.
    * Added a RELEASE file to hold current release notes.
    * Added log task.
    * Added changelog file in doc/log/.
    * Up'd version to 2.0.4.
    * Update task/groups.
    * Fixed to_h in Command::Options
    * Fixed bug in initialize.

    * Removed extest task. We will no longer need it.
    * Fixed bug in Hash#- Thanks to Xavier Shay.
    * Minor update to rdoc.yaml.
    * Renamed old changelogs.


== 2.0.5 / 2007-11-07

Changes:

    * Added final methods Gavin Sinclair's Extensions project (contributed by Noah Gibbs).
    * Fixes bug with Dictionary#initialize
    * Fixes bug with Hash#-
    * Also improves changelog production.
    * Made #alias_method_chain compatible with current ActiveSupport version.


== 2.0.4 / 2007-11-04

Changes:

== 2.0.3 / 2007-11-02

Changes:

        * Touch up to methods task.
        * Update rsync filter
        * Minor updates fixing issues highlighted by running crosstest.
        * Many minor bug fixes after running against crosstest.
        * Added usage support for __foo options.
        * Fixed a many a test after running against crosstest.
        * Removed load task. It did not isolate the libs, so wasn't effective.
        * Added a number of new tasks.
        * Rename SMTP_TLS to Smtp_tls for Rdocs.
        * Moved rdoc.yaml to config/.
        * moved task/config to task/config/general.
        * Update tasks.


2007-11-01  transami

Changes:

        * Added array/only,  symbol/to_proc (where did it go?) and hash/select.


2007-10-31  transami

Changes:

        * Update roll file.
        * Moved test_command_options to test_command.
        * Update dictionary test to check dup and autohash.
        * Fixed autohash and dup bugs.
        * Verbatim support for Rails' version of #alias_method_chain.
        * Remove site/ directory.
        * Moved rsync filter up too.
        * Moved doc/site/ up to doc/.
        * Added javascript directory to doc/.


2007-10-30  transami

        * Updates across the board.
        * Updates to stylize and command.rb.
        * Made facets.rb a shortcut to facets/facets.rb (this is for Rolls, better way?)
        * Oh smack. Lots of stuff fixed.


2007-10-29  transami

        * Remove version.txt. No longer needed.
        * Removed meta/project.yaml, replaced by facets roll file.


2007-10-28  transami

Changes:

        * Modifications to command.rb, snapshot and rbsystem.
            * Merged command.rb and command_options.rb into command.rb.
            * Added to_data aliases to snapshot.rb
            * Minor additions to rbsystem. Rather than System, maybe Ruby?


2007-10-27  transami

Changes:

    * Removed embedded test from overload.rb.
    * Allow OpenStruct#initialize to take a setter block.
    * Downloader needs 'wb' flag rather then just 'w'.
    * Fixed typo and removed embedded test.
    * Fixed bug in command_options.rb, putting the class back in the Console namespace.

    * improved module/traits.rb


== 2.0.2 / 2007-10-08

Changes:

    * cleaned up some test and updated version to 2.0.2
    * update methods to eleminate duplicate file names between lib/core and lib/methods


== 2.0.1 / 2007-10-06

Changes:

    * updated version to 2.0.1
    * minor bugs fixes
    * update methods task to display each file as it process it
    * added benchmarks for some enumerable methods.
    * moved demo/bench/bench_factorial to an demo/bench/integer subclass
    * added Erik Veenstra to AUTHORS for work on enumerable/group_by and cluster_by
    * minor improvement to test task to specifically read test_*.rb files
    * removed enumerable/partition.rb
    * move enumerable/partition.rb methods to collect.rb.
    * Improved Integer#of.
    * Minor improvements to collect.rb and partition.rb
    * Deprecated nonuniq!, bug fixed cluster_by and aliased group_by and partition_by.
    * Rennamed Enumerable#partition_by to group_by (like RUby 1.9) and fixed bug in cluster_by.


== 2.0.0 / 2007-10-02

Changes:

    * Added Oliver Renaud to the AUTHORS list (oops!)
    * update README to not use folded lines
    * spellchecked README
    * update test task and test_aop.rb
    * minor update to meta/project.yaml
    * updates to groups task and methods task and version to 'stable'
    * updated test task to allow 'live' test
    * update AUTHORS
    * update test task and move AUTHORS file to toplevel
    * moved note/ to doc/notes
    * update tasks for core/fore move and moved todo to dev/
    * moved fore to core (and core to methods)


2007-09-20  transami

        * update test and install tasks
        * require fixes to cut.rb and attributes.rb
        * fixed tests for string/nchar and kernel/silence
        * Fixed String#brief in format.rb


2007-09-13  transami

        * removed 1stClassMethod from "more" docs
        * removed 1stClassMethod as a rdoc target (now in Core target)
        * update install and rdoc tasks
        * moved string/test_index.rb to string/test_nchar.rb
        * updated indexable tests
        * update string.rb to include string/nchar.rb
        * moved index.rb to nchar.rb
        * clean up string/index.rb


2007-09-12  transami

        * moved facets.rb to fore directory
        * add comment to groups task
        * added groups task
        * updated all extrension group files (array.rb, binding.rb, etc.)
        * uncapitalize meta files
        * update methods task a bit more, plus related configuration
        * updated methods task
        * removed lib/core --this is generated content (may be renamed too)
        * added load and stats tasks
        * update install task --this replaces setup b/c of Facets' special install needs
        * update project file
        * removed lib/facets
        * moved remaining libs to fore (will later consider an additional subdivision)
        * move facets/fore to fore/facets
        * move facets/more to more/facets
        * added ;ob/core, more and fore
        * move memorize


2007-09-10  transami

        * removed io and net directories
        * moved io/redirect.rb to more/ioredirect.rb and net/smtp_tls.rb and net/uploadutils.rb libs to more too.
        * few more libs moved to more/ directory
        * moved all the most obvious more libs to the more directory
        * moved fore "grouping" libs to fore directory
        * moved "fore" libs to fore directory
        * create for and more directories (yes, you know what's coming ;)
        * renamed remain.rb (was main_as_module.rb) to just main.rb
        * improved rdoc task and project.yaml file
        * better docs for OpenObject
        * improved method hiding


2007-09-07  transami

        * documentation touch ups
        * fixes for conversion.rb rather than conversions.rb
        * updated to website docs
        * moved demos to demo/sample
        * added bench and sample dir to demo


2007-09-06  transami

        * moved spy.html to light.html
        * menum change to webpage, fixed core doc link
        * moved metadata files to meta/ (info/ or box/ would be better?)
        * updated test_conversion.rb for to_h/to_hash
        * reverse_each instead of each for after advice in advice.rb
        * final fix to to_h/to_hash discrepency
        * added a Path and Root features to Pathname (good idea?)


2007-09-05  transami

        * update advice.rb test and moved old cut test to dev/scrap
        * updated advice; removed preinitialize.rb to trinkets project (it was too expiremental)
        * command_filter.rb needs to considered/developed; moved to dev/new/
        * fixed interface.rb fo singelton methods
        * updates to tests
        * whole lot of small bug fixes
        * add tests to revision control
        * removed old cut test (moved to dev/scrap)
        * working on tests


2007-09-04  transami

        * added read.rb (taken from readwrite.rb)
        * split readwrite.rb into read.rb and write.rb
        * remove string/unpack.rb, offset can be had using '@' format instead
        * renamed conversions.rb to conversion.rb, fixed some requires
        * improved attr.rb
        * some cleanup of enumerable extensions
        * setup annotations demo


2007-09-03  transami

        * add non-embedded tests


2007-09-02  transami

        * finally brough over toadcode prototype.rb and cleaned it up enough to be useful
        * removed annotations subdir
        * moved annotations/ann.rb and attr.rb to annotations.rb and attributes.rb
        * remove annotations.rb
        * moved annotations/settings.rb up a dir
        * remove settings.rb
        * chnaged multiton_id(e) to multiton_id(*e,&b)
        * updated test task
        * added Christoph Rippel to authors lists
        * added doc header to new multiton class
        * update to new version of multiton
        * playing around with multiton2.rb
        * renamed dev/try to dev/new
        * created dev/old to temporarily house old versions of libs that have been replaced.
        * fixed quick.html documentation
        * used old wiki.gif as email.gif instead
        * fixed config.yaml publish entry
        * some minor updates to index.html


2007-09-01  transami

        * moved site to doc/site
        * update to publish task
        * updates of tasks
        * added kernel/report.rb to hold debug/warn extensions.
        * renamed reporting.rb to silence.rb
        * update reporting.rb (created report.rb from it)
        * task work
        * clean up dev finis
        * cleanup dev just a bit more
        * continue cleanup of dev directory
        * moved dev/twiki to misc/
        * removed dev/core
        * moved require_directory.rb to misc/
        * added dev/misc for code scraps that might be useful but are not straight lib or task code
        * more dev changes
        * organize dev better
        * cleanup of dev continues
        * cleanup of dev dir
        * clean up dev dir more
        * some cleanup of dev directory


2007-08-31  transami

        * almost completed advice lib
        * added comment about possible update
        * deprecate instance_send and instance_map
        * work on rdoc task
        * work on rdoc task


2007-08-30  transami

        * added dev/cut dir


2007-08-29  transami

        * no reason to track .config
        * clean up trunk
        * added todo comment
        * added advice.rb to replace old aspects.rb
        * removed aspects.rb (sucked), added prototype.rb (infancy) and adjusted to class_extension.rb
        * removed #to_roman (now part of the English project)
        * cont. work on aop and cuts
        * fixed IMG tag bug
        * added yaml.rb
        * move #here convenience method to binding/eval (separate?)
        * added in order to remove kernel/misc.rb
        * consolidate string/regesc
        * added module/methods
        * updates to include and attr


2007-08-28  transami

        * fixed Range#umbrella
        * more organization of docs
        * orginizing docs


2007-08-27  transami

        * update val.rb
        * added proc/fn.rb (from kernel/misc.rb) and fixed typo in compose.rb
        * moved misc.rb to val.rb
        * better organization of some kernel methods
        * moved #here alias to eval.rb
        * minor updates and some bug fixes (modspace what broke)
        * removed file/yaml.rb in favor or just yaml.rb
        * moved this to facets/yaml.rb


2007-08-25  transami

        * work on aop system
        * Added aop.rb, and cut.r and recursive.rb
        * moved cut.rb to dev (old version will be deprecated)
        * added to_hash to Dictionary, and minor mods to others


2007-08-24  transami

        * oops, no need for enumerator directory
        * moved threaded_send.rb to mapsend.rb
        * moved threaded_send out of enumerable/ dir
        * updates to elementor.rb
        * merged instance_map into threaded_send
        * removed map_send
        * merging map_send with threaded_send


2007-08-23  transami

        * cont work on elementwise methods
        * divide elementwise functions betwee two libs
        * uniq.rb is merged into count.rb
        * removed count.rb (uniq.rb will become count.rb)


2007-08-22  transami

        * continued refinement of enumerable extensions
        * general improvements to the organization of enumerable extensions


2007-08-19  transami

        * removed facets/cli dir
        * moved all cli libs from facets/cli to facets/
        * moved cli support files to facets locations
        * moved cli lib to facets main (also modified functor)


2007-08-18  transami

        * renamed hash/reverse to hash/merge (it contains #reverse_merge)


2007-08-11  transami

        * remove instance_intercept (moced to Trinkets project)


2007-08-10  transami

        * continued modification of those tasky tools
        * removed lib/more (this is it!)
        * moved M-Z of more/facets to facets (this is it!)
        * moved A-L of more/facets to facets (this is it!)
        * removed lib/core (this is it!)
        * moved lib/core/facets.rb to lib/facets.rb (this is it!)
        * moved lib/core/facets to lib/facets (this is it!)
        * added file/yaml.rb
        * added a list of libraries considered "core"
        * continued work on build tools
        * change tools for core/more convergence (so help us god!)
        * added conversion requirement to some core libs
        * update methods task

        * update quick.html to mirror rdoc changes --still needs work though
        * remove old rdoc task
        * added rdoc section (minimal) to tool/config.yaml
        * nope. remove site/rdoc
        * add rdoc dir, should we?
        * remove site/rdoc in preperation for new way
        * facets.rb belongs to core/
        * renamed some doc files
        * removed src/core
        * move src/core/lin to lib/core
        * added kernel/constant
        * remove src/core/web
        * moving more of core to top-level (svn sucks!)
        * moving core support files to top-level
        * removed src/more
        * move src/more/lib to lib/more
        * made lib dir (to replace src)
        * added settings.rb which points to annotations/settings.rb
        * moved svn to annotations/ subdir
        * moved dev files to top-level as part of more transition
        * temporarily removed dev/more
        * moved annotations demo to demo dir
        * added demo folder
        * add dev/more
        * remove struct again! (stupid svn)
        * moved file to top-level doc as part of more transisiton
        * bullshit svn crap
        * ann moved back to more (strongly considering annotations for it's own project)
        * build moved back to more
        * aop moved back to more
        * cast moved back to more
        * crypt moved back to more
        * exts moved back to more
        * file moved back to more
        * meta moved back to more
        * misc moved back to more
        * model moved back to more
        * struct moved to back to more
        * moved sync back to more

    * moved commandoptions.rb to command_options.rb
    * rewrote command and command options libs
    * initial Subversion import


== 1.8.54 / 2007-02-19

Changes:

    * added reqiure to ostruct.rb test
    * fix to command.rb's initializer
    * fixed bug with times.rb beginning_of_year and beginning_of_month
    * replaced pqueue and heap with new working class (thanks to Olivier Renaud)
    * fixed bug in ormsupport.rb (this will be moved out of facets in next release)
    * added empty? to dictionary (removed old subclass of Hash)
    * significant improvements to command.rb thanks to Tyler Rick
    * added tests to elementwise and tap
    * fixed test for elementwise and op_tilde_self
    * added enumerable/map_send
    * added thread_map and thread_map_send thanks to greg
    * added operator "~@" for enumerable/elementwise
    * added more/consoleutils.rb
    * added string/cleave
    * added capitalize_all thanks to Richard Laugesen
    * cartesian_product is an alias of enumerable/cart
    * added array pad thanks to Richard Laugesen
    * added kernel/tap
    * fixed test/unit load issues
    * converted facet/ requires to facets/core or facets/more as needed
    * further improvements to arguments.rb (looking good!)
    * improved symbol/self/generate
    * bug fix kernel/autoreload arguments needed to be in opposite order
    * add to_xoxo
    * removed bad character codes in multiplier.rb
    * used yaml to allow json.rb to work for all object in general
    * improvements to functor (note: is to_a and to_proc okay?)
    * add test to string/bytes.rb
    * bug fix to nilclass/op_cmp
    * fixed enumerable/op_pow to use enumerable/cart
    * added array/op_div
    * adjustments to xmlbuilder and htmlbuilder dur to buildingblock changes
    * improved buildingblock.rb
    * simplified interface of arguments.rb (still a little more to do)
    * improvements/simplifications to Dir.multiglob
    * added new authors to list
    * fixed misspelling of behavior.rb (was bahvior.rb)
    * removed #own from base list in facets.rb (really need a standard for "singleton class")
    * minor adjustments to uploadutils
    * fixed bug in aspects.rb that would not handle args of wrapped method
    * Symbol#to_s optimization, had to remove freeze
    * updates to fileutils/stage (stage worth keeping?)
    * update to credits
    * fix bug in kernel/ask, returns more than one character
    * cleanup of enumerbale/graph (no effective change)
    * new super fast enumerable/cart by Thomas Hafner (replaces #cross)
    * improved multiglob rountines (accept '+' and '-' prefixes)
    * No longer will track project file via scm until it settles
    * fixed bug in attr_tester, thanks Dov!
    * added weekdays to times.rb thanks to Ryan Platte and Dave Hoover
    * improvements to dictionary.rb (no longer a subclass of Hash) thanks Jan!
    * re-replace openhash with openobject
    * improvements to ann.rb and ann_attr.rb. works, yea!
    * fixed bug in string/singular.rb
    * changed enumerable/cross into enumerable/cart and cartesian_product
    * openobject returns (openhash was a bad name, thanks george)
    * moved enumerable/cross to enumerable/cart (cartesian_product)


== 1.8.0 / 2007-01-24

Changes:

    * added buildingblock.rb, replaced builderobject.rb
    * adjust require for "yored" files
    * HtmlBuilder and XMLBuilder aer now based on BuildingBlock
    * bug fix for command.rb
    * minor improvements to basic object (object_self to access kernel methods)
    * ostuct adjustment, use #instance_delegate to get underneth the open access
    * module/include_as is now based on module/namespace (thanks Pit!)
    * minor adjustments to methods for (class<<self;self;end)
    * fixed enumerable/partition_by
    * further updates to project info file (need to stop versioning this)
    * deprecated (yored) builderobject.rb (poor implementation)
    * added hash/insert; like store but only if key isn't already present
    * added module/include_and_extend
    * facets.rb now references facets/sys.rb
    * added facets/automatic -- very cool, albiet expiremental way to load core methods automatically!
    * added File::mulitglob_sum; accumulates file patterns, and accepts '+' and '-' prefixes
    * added module/module_method; like module_function but makes method public
    * added module/include_function_module; attempts to properly include one function_module into another
    * kernel/yaml convenience method for YAML::load
    * added kernel/supress; supress errors while executing a block (nice DHH!)
    * added symbol/chomp, like string#chomp
    * added proc/to_h; converts an assignment proc into a hash
    * proc/bind; bind a proc to an object, returning a method
    * added module/prepend; provides dyanamic method wraps for modules, and static wraps for classes
    * added module/new; use a module as if it were a class
    * added module/alias_accessor
    * renamed #superior to #super_at
    * kernel/instance_class; yet anouther meta_class name, but a more sensicle name this one
    * added kernel/populate; populates an object's inst. vars from a hash or assingment block
    * added kernel/daemonize; one last thanks to DHH!
    * added enumerable/injecting; like inject but automatically returns the memo from the block
    * added kernel/object_send, a true public-only send method
    * added kernel/silence_stream; output to null device; thanks DHH!
    * added kernel/instance_values, thanks DHH!
    * added Config:inspect for rbconfig
    * added hash/pairs_at (aking to values_at)
    * added _why's metaid methods (meta_class, meta_eval, etc.)
    * added kernel/enable_warnings to complement silence_warinings
    * added integer/to_roman
    * added logical operators for hash (and/or)
    * array/to_path convert ans array to a path string
    * array/index takes a block
    * added fileutils/compress; very simple convenience methods for archiving folders
    * added fileutils/stage adn staged, a means of transfering files accoring to preset rules
    * had to remove taskable.rb for now (implementation won't work as toplevel include)
    * added kernel/ask, simply command to get console input
    * moved deprecated #facet_require to yore lib
    * deprecated (yored) kernel/own, yet another term for the singleton class
    * renamed quaclass to qua_class
    * added populate.rb, mixin for classes that need on a basic initializer
    * added version_number.rb (a specialized tuple)
    * OpenObject = OpenHash (OpenObject will eventually be deprecated)
    * added uploadutils.rb
    * added Joel VanderWerf's great script.rb script
    * added Austin's minitar.rb --it's just too damn useful!
    * added htmlfilter.rb very nice html escape class
    * added dependency.rb, allwos method to have dependend execution (like rake tasks)
    * added arguments.rb this is for parsing console command arguments
    * add new version of annotations: ann.rb and ann_attr.rb
    * memoize should now work at toplevel
    * removed dataobject.rb (was never used)
    * minor doc change to instance_intercept.rb
    * doc change to methodfilter.rb (maybe deprecat in future)
    * deprecated (yored!) module/inject; what a silly method
    * added File::yaml? to roughly detect if a file is a yaml file
    * deprecated kernel/require_facet (no longer needed)
    * moved old module/namespace implementation to yore
    * adjust old annotation.rb (now in yore) to use openhash
    * moved plugin.rb to ratchets/library project
    * renamed openobject to openhash !!!
    * proper credit for multiton goes to Ara T. Howard!!!! Also improvements.
    * remove library.rb (move to ratchets/library project)
    * minor bug fix to httpaccess
    * updated autovivify.rb to use openhash
    * improvement to command.rb
    * imporved time/stamp
    * reimplemented proc/to_method for more sensible behavior
    * reimplemented module/namespace, very clever thanks to pit captain
    * added module_load and module_require, e.g. load into and require into
    * reimplemented instance_exec, should be much improved
    * doc updates to inflect.rb
    * updates to Hash op_add, reverse_merge, and rekey
    * each_slice is now just an alias via enumerator & fixes to partition_by
    * minor adjusment to multiglob
    * modified all.rb (not recommended!) to require facets/sys
    * modifications to project information file (should this be versioned?)
    * created yore lib to store deprecated features (good idea!)
    * modified PROJECT info file
    * added module class/module_load and _require
    * remove facet/ redirect lib from darcs repository
    * OpenObject is now OpenHash (OpenObject still exist for backcompat)
    * kernel/returning is a stub for kernel/with
    * added proc/update as alias for #call per Tim Pease use of Proc as Observable
    * added behavior.rb by Nobuyoshi Nakada (plan to improve)
    * rewrote taskable.rb using classes to represent tasks; it is much improved
    * openobject.rb doc updates
    * major update to functor which is now a subclass of Proc (should be faster)
    * improvements to dictionary.rb to go along with additions of first and last
    * small improvements to command.rb
    * removed uses of __class__ for object_class and solidified usaged of #as in basicobject.rb
    * deprecated ostruct shadow methods (i.e __table__) in favor of #instance methods
    * added test to module/alias_method_chain
    * imporvements to instance_exec thanks to Mauricio Fernandez
    * improvements to kernel/send_as
    * improvements to kernel/as
    * minor doc addition to kernel/as
    * fixed syntax in hash/op_add.rb
    * imporvements to hash/partition_by thanks to Gregory of Laurel
    * added Mauricio Fernandez to authors
    * added addtional work library lore
    * moved "calibre" project information files
    * moved a number of "in the works" libs to ToadCode project
    * removed predicate.rb, an expiremental logic system, and moved to ToadCode
    * Added plugin.rb, an indirect require mechinism, ie. a plugin system
    * remove one.rb and moved to ToadCode project, this was just silly/fun library
    * Added library.rb which is a library ledger system (used to be roll.rb)
    * added kernel/with which instance_eval's a block on with's subject
    * rekey is an improved version of normalize_keys (ie. the basis of symbolize_keys)
    * multiglob is like glob but handles a list of patterns
    * proper access to openstruct's underlying table
    * minor adjustment to taskable.rb
    * minor adjustment to #dresner docs
    * minor adjustment to #as
    * simple doc addition to setup.rb
    * doc fixes and losening toplevel constraint to Object in taskable
    * made OpenObject #update and #merge public; added to_hash
    * minor "public" fix to main_as_object
    * removed unorder_store and store_only; added first/last to dictionary
    * continued improvements to command.rb
      added some new callbacks such as option_missing;
      also handles method_missing properly now
    * minor adjustments to module::@+
    * added string/rewrite
    * test fixes to module/include_as
    * documentation fix for class_extension
    * minor edit to supermethod (also finish #superior removal)
    * cleanup kernel/set_with code
    * update kernel/metaclass can now take a block
    * added hash#+ and hash#- (op_add and op_sub)
    * added cache to enumerable/every
    * minor updates to facets.rb
    * removed kernel/superior (silly name)
    * minor modifications ot PROJECT file
    * [add] more/autovivify.rb expiremental lib.
    * [update] Minor fix to command.rb to not use Kernel methods as subcommands.
    * [update] Work on annotation.rb to improve support for :self.
    * [deprecate] enumerable/permute.rb (replaced by permutation) and minor test fix to linkedlist.rb
    * [added] linkedlist.rb (thanks Kirk Haines!)
    * [added] enumerable/sum (thanks to Gavin Kistner)
    * [added] array/each_combo and combos (Eunumerable.combinations will be deprecated eventually)
    * [rename] changed enumerable/permute to permutation
    * [update] annotation.rb, fixed :self key
    * [added] pathname/op_div
    * [deprecated] hash/each.rb
    * [removed] hash/each.rb, this variation of Hash#each is too "dangerous" in practice
    * [update] module/self/op_add.rb: fixed inclusion order
    * annotation.rb, return annotations of self when key is :self [updated]
    * module/self/op_add.rb and op_sub.rb - traits like features [added]
    * minor improvemtns to module/clone_using and integrate
    * command.rb: minor change to docs [update]
    * openobject.rb (added NilClass#to_openobject) [update]
    * enumerable/each_slice.rb [replace]
      Ruby already has #each_slice if you require 'enumerator'. And for 1.9,
      I believe, this will be present automatically. So Facets' each_slice
      has been replaced with a simple redirection to require 'enumerator'.
      Ruby's version is slightly different in that it won't check arity if
      a slice count is not given. For this, use enumerable/each_by.
    * array/delete_at.rb [removed]
      Ruby's Array class already has a #delete_at method,
      although this is another method at odds with Hash.
      Use #delete_values_at instead.
    * moved File.bitbucket to File.null (but bitbucket was so "fun"! ;)
    * added nilclass/to_path
    * added kernel/load_local
    * added kernel/callee
    * added enumerable/eachn, integer/each and integer/of
    * re-added array/delete_values_at
    * added filetest/self/root
    * added cache.rb
    * moved Dir.bitbucket to File.bitbucket
    * removed task file in favor of sake based util/
    * added main_as_module
    * added doublemetaphone (Thanks Lawrence Philps!)
    * rewrote taskable.rb
    * minor doc fix to association.rb
    * added symbol/to_s which caches the result for speed up
    * additions and adjusments related to hash/delete_at
    * added Dir.bitbucket
    * update to array/op_fetch to include op_store
    * updated docs and util tasks
    * minor changes
    * added filesystem.rb
    * taskable should now work at the toplevel too
    * still working the organization as Reap/Sake change
    * started setting project tasks up for sake
    * updates to enumerable each_slice
    * updated names of meta files
    * updates to READMEs
    * added trace to command.rb
    * organizational changes


== 1.7.0 / 2006-07-25

Changes:

    * fix to inifinty.rb
    * comment on cut.rb needed a quick fix
    * updated infinity
    * added tkxml.rb
    * allow tasks to to arguments (all dependent tasks must take same args)
    * update infinity.rb to conform more with common standards
    * error catch added to command.rb (thanks Jonas)
    * added singleton annotations
    * minor improvement to wrap_method and proc/compose
    * added more/infinity.rb
    * major improvement to String#singular and plural
    * update normalize_keys to take a proc instead of a "send" parameter
    * projectinfo backups change
    * added cuts implimentation
    * separated integer/op_mul from compose, op_mul now composes and Integer#of
    * wrap_method, no need to undef method before redefining it
    * move calibre files (will we do ever use?) to work/pore/meta
    * added work dir to repo
    * fix instance_interception test
    * doc cleanup
    * added hash/op_div and array/op_div to BASE.
    * remove kernel/called and fixed callee,__callee__ and __method__.
    * just about prefected OpenObject
    * keys_to_sym to symbolize_keys usage
    * remove explore dir, perhaps better to do without midstage
    * added to_a to OpenObject
    * minor touchup to opencascade


== 1.6.0 / 2006-07-20

Changes:

    * PrivateAccess expiremental class
    * added reverse_merge  (from Active Support)
    * adjustments to stringify_keys, record normalize_keys
    * work on other Hash subclasses Dictionary, OpenCascade, and Hash#having_fallback features
    * added some core methods enumerable#divide, array and hash op_div, kernel/meta
    * deprecated generate_method_name and generate_instance_method_name
    * Hash methods keys_to_s and keys_to_sym to stringify_keys and symbolize_keys
    Both now depend on normalize_keys
    * rewrote openobject as a subclass of Hash with a method filter
    * rewrote annotation.rb and moved into more/
    * add meta docs to darcs
    * added Jan Molic's Debugger(Logger) to explore
    * calibre task (worth the effort?)
    * added Symbol::generate
    * remove generate_method_name methods
    ** removed kernel/generate_method_name
    ** removed moodule/generate_instance_method_name
    Neither were thread safe.
    * new implementation of openobject cont.
    * updated dictionary class
    1. created subclass AutoDictionary, now used by Dictionary.auto
    2. deprecated ::key_new and :value_new, use ::new.by_key and ::new.by_value instead.
    3. Retained ::alpha but changed ::auto_key to ::auto_alpha.
    * new implementation of openobject in Facets/EXPLORE
    * Added deep_clone (thanks Jan Molic)
    * project metadata work adjustments
    * minor update to tagiterator.rb
    * add _darcs expection to FileList
    * fix to nilclass#status (accept single parameter)
    * added Hash.auto (thanks Jan Molic)
    * remove blankslate alias to basicobject
    * added annotation and instance_intercept to Facets/EXPLORE
    * added Kernel#to_data
    * add Daniel Berger's Hash#to_stuct
    * moved ValueHolder in snapshot.rb to Snapshot::ValueHolder
    * minor bug fix to alias_method_chain
    * fix compatiblity with Reap
    * improved Proc#to_method and Kernel#instance_exec
    * added instance_exec (duh)
    * added object_clone and object_dup object_ methods are intended as non-overridable (although you cna if you must).
    * no Configuration alias for Settings
    * added facets/explore libs
    * added settings.rb from glue
    * openobject uses self[] instead of @table[]
    also update proj/infp to start 1.5 series
    * deprecate BaasicObject


== 1.4.5 / 2006-07-05

Changes:

    * move ProjectInfo to proj/info
    * better arrangment of repository
    * Added nil#status, module#alias_method_chain and enumerable#cascade.
    nil#status - Allows a messgae to be passed through a failure chain.
    module#alias_method_chain - from rails this is clever idiom for
    module-based method wrapping. A limited solution, but since
    there's no standard solution as of yet, well support til then.
    enumerable#cascade - cascade a list of action on each element
    of an enumerable.
    * method missing in htmlbuilder effected by basic object fix
    * minor update to functor.rb
    * change WebAgent to Web
    * Removed hash/keys_to_iv b/c it is a poor name. Since the alternative of
      keys_to_instance_variables conveys the wrong idea, decided to just get
      rid of this. Instead use the Rails compatibile hash/variablize_keys.
    * 1.4RC3
    * initial import


== 1.4.4 / 2007-07-03

Changes:

    * added nil#status - Allows a messgae to be passed through
      a failure chain.
    * added module#alias_method_chain - from rails this is clever
      idiom for module-based method wrapping. A limited
      solution, but since there's no standard solution as
      of yet, well support til then.
    * added enumerable#cascade - cascade a list of actions on each
      element of an enumerable. Better name for this?
    * method missing in htmlbuilder effected by BasicObject fix
      (use __self__.method instead of __metod__)
    * minor update to functor.rb. Added @self = function.binding.self.
      Still tweaking for best meta informatin access.
    * change WebAgent to Web
    * Removed hash/keys_to_iv b/c it is a poor name. Since the alternative
      of #keys_to_instance_variables conveys the wrong idea, decided to just
      get rid of this. Instead use the hash#variablize_keys which is also
      Rails compatibile.


== 1.4.2 / 2006-06-21

Changes:

    * Started using Darcs --finally!
    * Transition to Darcs has interupted ChangeLog though :(
    * Mostly minor fixes in prepeartion for official 1.4 release.
    * Adjusted BasicObject slightly, further reducing unhidden methods.
      Among them __object__, __method__ and #as. Also added method_missing
      that detects shadow methods and rebinds them to Object. Keep in mind
      that woun't help you if you override method_missing which is
      typical for this class.
    * Fixed bug in BasicObject#__self__.


== 1.4.0 / 2006-06-05

Changes:

    * Added Cookie, HTTP and HTTPAccess of ...'s library.
    * OpenObject's __get__ and __set__ methods have been changed
      to __fetch__ and __store__ to correspond to the Hash methods.
    * Added OpenCascade, which is like OpenObject but chains access.
    * Added ...'s lazy.rb which include's Future and Promise classes.
    * Added task.rb, which provides a Rake interface compatible task
      system, but that can be used in any code.
    * Improved Hash#traverse (it now does all traversing before yielding).
    * kernel/me, kernel/methodname and kernel/method_name have all been
      deprecated in favor of the 1.9 standard kernel/__method__ and
      kernel/__callee__.
    * Console::Application is deprecated and is no longer an alias for
      Console::Command.
    * Console::Command also now supports run-on flags (eg. -xvzf).
    * More's classinherit.rb has been removed, and classmethods.rb will be
      too in  another version or two. You should transition all uses of
      these to core/module/class_extension.rb.
    * Updated tuple.rb so that when a string is converted to a Tuple (#to_t)
      the values wll be made integers if they are composed of only numbers.
      If you need all strings you can use a block since the block bypasses
      this auto coercement, eg. to_t{ |v| v }.


== 1.3.1 / 2006-04-17

Changes:

    * Deprecated string/to_arr, and slightly adjusted string#to_a.
      (Not commonly used so not a major change.)
    * Minor bug fixes.


== 1.3.0 / 2006-04-05

Changes:

    * Ported parts of Nitro's Glue library to Facets.
      * more/aspects.rb
      * core/module/on_included.rb
      * core/module/expirable.rb
      * core/enumerable/accumulate.rb
    * Added xoxo.rb, json.rb and rtals.rb.
    * Repaired missing data files for units.rb.
    * Moved cattr methods from module/ to class/.
    * mattr methods are in limbo at the moment.
      (They were aliases for cattr.)


== 1.2.1 / 2006-03-29

Changes:

    * kernel/meta has been renamed to kernel/instance


== 1.2.0 / 2006-03-24

Changes:

    * Added zimba.tm's string/modulize, pathize and methodize.
    * Added some Gem methods, self/active?, self/gemspec, self/gempath.


== 1.0.3 / 2006-02-10

Changes:

    * A last ditch attempt to keep facets and calibre as one project.
    * Added _why's Array modulo.


== 1.0.0 / 2005-12-04

Okay. Now we've finally hit our 1.0.0 relase. Yea! Does it desrve 1.0 at this point?
Ah, well close enough. Mainly there won't be anymore silly development names ;)

Changes:

    * Sped up string#similarity.
    * By popular protest deprecated usage of "AClass.use Facets, :amethod".
    * Created nicer layout of facets/support, /group, /english (one day /method).
    * Odd sets of facets have been move to facets/group/, eg. facets/group/inflect.
    * All is now well preped for a Rolls release shoud that come about.


== 0.10.30

Halloween

Changes:

    * Change OrderedHash (ohash.rb) to Dictionary (dictionary.rb).
    * Change BlankSlate (blankslate.rb) to BasicObject (basicobject.rb).
    * Old versions of the above should still work, but throw warnings
      and will stop working come next version.
    * 1.rb has been renamed to one.rb (I know, two more characters,
      but you can do it! ;)
    * Methods enumerable/op_mod (%) and enumerable/eF are deprecated.
      Use #every or #ew instead.


== 0.10.11

Palapable

Changes:

    * Merged Mega into Facets. I put the old Mega ChangeLog at
      the bottom of this document.
    * This represents the One-Point-Oh realease (albeit RC1) of
      Facets, but from now on I'll be using date versioning
      --if you look at the versions below you may understand why.
      The versioning sequence has no real rationality.
      Instead I will use this simple Rational Versioning Policy:
      * If YYYY-MM-DD it's a development release.
      * If YYYY-MM it's an official release.
      * If just YYYY it's hella stable.
      One might argue this is not as robust as a compatability
      significant point-based versioning system, but I'd say that's
      all well and good in theory, now give me something that actually
      works in practice.


== 0.9.5

Rebirth

Changes:

    * Rebirth of Facets! As cool as the name Nano is, it became clear
      that most people are drawn toward the name Facets. So we are
      reverting back. Nonetheless Nano will remain a viable alias for
      Facets.
    * Must now use <code>require 'facets'</code> prior to using
      other Facets. This does two things. First it loads the
      base methods, which ensures that all programs have them
      readibly available when using Facets. Secondly it supplements
      #require to handle aliases. In essence, require 'facet/...',
      require 'facets/...' and require 'nano/...' all point to the
      same place(s). (NOTE This is a precursor to a more universal
      system that will handle aliasing automatically.)
    * kernel/require_esc has been removed. #require_nano will be also
      in the next release. These will no longer be needed thanks to
      the aliasing system.


== 0.9.2

Littles

Changes:

    * Added string/starts_with? and string/ends_with?
    * Fixed module/memoize to cache on a per class/module bases.
    * Added module/is as an alias for /include.
    * Added module/shadow_method and shadow_all.
    * Renamed module/superup (which was module/supers) to module/as. And defined a new
      method called /superior which is like /super but skips to a sepecified ancestor.
    * Renamed module/super_send to module/send_as.


== 0.9.1

Wraps

Changes:

    * Added module/nesting (not to be confused with the class method Module::nesting).
    * Thanks goes to Gavien Kistner for new string/word_wrap methods
      (with additioanl thanks to Dyane Borderson for his suggestions).
    * Added hash/each_with_key and each_with_index, as well as array/each_with_key;
      increasing polymorphism between the two classes.
    * Moved array/each_pair to enumerable/each_pair and changed how it worked to
      what one might expect.


== 0.9.0 / 2005-10-28

NotUorI

Changes:

    * Deprecated object#special_class, which was a method for (class<<self;self;end).
      Already have too many aliases for this, and though the name is fitting, the simpler
      method #own is better (alternative: #singleton).
    * Fixed enumerable/uniq_by file which was misnamed 'unique_by.rb'.
    * BIG CHANGE! Got rid of URI encoding on file names and sub'd a converson table
      of english readable names. Thanks Jeff Wood, Florain Gross, Dav Burt,
      Gavin Kistner, James Edward Gray II, Brian Schröder, Mauricio Fernández,
      David A. Black, Gavin Sinclair, Nikolai Weibull and Christian Neukirchen.


== 0.8.3

UorI

Changes:

    * Added kernel/uri and kernel/unuri
    * (Good idea?) removed methods module/sattr, sattr_reader, &c. Instead created object/meta
      in which attr, attr_reader, &c. are made public. So, sattr -> meta.attr.
    * Added array/unzip
    * Added logger/format and logger/format_message (stub).
    * Added string/dequote.
    * Class method file names now begin with '::' to separate them from instance methods.


== 0.8.2

Nano Revolution

Changes:

    * Name Change! What was Ruby Facets is now Nano Methods!
    * New minor version as there has been a change of plans with the integration of what was Carats.
      The classes and modules have been reseperated into their own project called Mega Modules.
    * Modified the #firstxxx/#lastxxx methods to be more congruent and comprehensible.
    * Renamed object/supers to object/superup. Better!
    * Got rid ot symbol/gen. Use object/generate_method_name or  module#generate_instance_method_name
      instead ( Is that the longest non-foo method name ever? :)
    * The file 1st.rb has moved to object/method. This modifies #method to persist the returned
      Method object. The original non-persitent version of #method is aliased to #original_method.
      (This arrangement is not set in stone though, and is still be considered.)
    * Added module/clone_using, module/clone_ranaming and module/clone_removing.
    * Added module/integrate (I love this one!)
    * Added many new enumerable methods: #filter_map, #compact_map, #commonality, #frequency,
      #probability and #find_collisions.
    * Moved some methods from array to enumerable: #each_permutation, #each_combination,
      #each_unique_pair and the class method ::combinations.
    * Added string/bytes per ruby-dev summary 26385-26467.
    * Moved #cattr_reader, #cattr_writer and #cattr_accessor from Class to Module.
    * Renamed numeric/octet_units to numeric/bytes_to_s and added a #bits_to_s as well.
    * Added class/descendants (alias subclasses) and class/remove_descendents, as well as
      object/descendents_of and object/remove_descendents_of.
    * Added methods to comparable: #cap, #clip. There are also #at_least and
      #at_most, although FYI #cap and #clip handle the same functionality.
    * Removed string/table_name and string/class_name (they were too Rails specific).
      Note: A new module has been added to Mega Modules, called orm-inflect.rb. It contains numerous
      methods for doing this sort of thing.
    * Added numeric/ceil_multiple (not sure about name though, perhaps a better name like "ceil_to"?).
    * Added string/soundex for calculating the soundex code of a word/name.
    * Added io/expect. I thought Ruby already had this but can't find it, so here it is for now.
    * Placed Florian's binding-of-caller.rb in binding/of_caller. Makes more sense there.
    * Fixed bug with Continuation::create (it wasn't defined as a class method and should have been).
    * Fixed bug with string/capitalized? which wasn't always giving the correct result.


== 0.7.2 / 2005-05-22

George II

Changes:

    * Added a class method dir/recurse which allows one to loop through a dir and all its
      subdirs, etc. It also has an alias #ls_r. Thanks goes to George Maschovitis for this.
    * Changed array/permute to array/each_permutation.


== 0.7.1

Quick George

Changes:

    * Added facet.rb, although expiremental it makes it possible to use atomic methods without
      specificaly requiring them. It uses Object#method_missing to require them as needed.
    * Improved on "molecules", i.e. files that require numerous related atoms in a single go.
      These will see a great deal of continued improvement in the future.


== 0.7.0

Georgian Transform

Changes:

    * All methods with names containing non-alphanumeric characters now have facet
      files without those special characters. This removes some incompatibilites with
      certain systems (including Windows). All such symbols have been replaced with
      CGI escape sequences, for instance 'in?.rb' becomes 'in%3F.rb'. To avoid having
      to use these "ugly" names, a new method has been added, kernel/require_facet.
    * Methods that were grouped together in the same file have been separated
      into their own files. Pure Atomicity has been achieved!
    * The method array/put has been dropped in favor of array/top (as a better alias for #unshift).
    * Methods #matchdata/post_match_from and #matchdata/pre_match_from have deprecated
      in favor of more generalized methods that serves the same purposes,
      matchdata/matchtree and matchdata/matchset.
    * Added module/include_as.
    * Added array/permute.


== 0.6.3

Gemstone

Changes:

    * Gem is now avaliable!
    * Added kernel/require_all which allows one to require a pattern of files,
      making it easy to require every file in a directory.
    * Added hash/traverse and hash/traverse!, which takes a block and iterates over
      each key-value pair descending into subhash values and applying the block.
      (Thanks goes to Ara T. Howard and robert for their help.)
    * Added hash/collect. This uses enumerable/graph so that
      hash/collect will return a hash rather then an array.
    * Added numeric/before and numeric/after in place of #ago and #since
      and aliased #ago and #since to them, per the suggestions of
      Francis Hwang.
    * Added "poor man's profiler", time/elapse. (Thanks goes to Hal Fulton).
    * Changed enumerable/build_hash to enumerable/graph. The method #build_hash
      has been aliased to #graph for the time being for backward compatability.
    * Added array/last_index. (Thanks goes to Jabari)


== 0.6.2

Refinement I

Changes:

    * Added kernel/resc as a shortcut for Regexp.escape.
    * Renamed hash/keys_to_string to hash/key_to_s and
      hash/keys_to_symbol to hash/keys_to_sym to be more consistant
      with other methods and what these methods specifically do.
      The old names have been deprecated.
    * Added hash/has_keys?, which allows for checking mutliple keys at once.
      Also includes #has_only_keys?
    * Added Rail's Time and Byte modules for Numeric with
      numeric/times.rb and numeric/bytes.rb (I've been informed that
      thanks go to Richard Kilmer for this. Thanks!)
    * Added numeric/octet_unit which utilizes numeric/bytes.
      (The name of this method may change in the future though.)
    * Added enumerable/uniq_by.
    * Added module/abstract.
    * Added module/redirect which is similar to alias, but does not
      copy the method, but rather wraps it. It also takes a hash so
      multiple methods can be redirected all at once.
    * Added string/shatter which is similar to split but includes
      the matched portions of text.

== 0.6.1

Florian's Mixes

Changes:

    * Updated the current set of mix files which were still from
      version 0.5.0. (2004-12-31)


== 0.6.0

Florian's Onslaught

Changes:

    * Major revisions made by Florian's onslaught. (2004-12-28)
    * First general public release.


== 0.5.0

Fit for First

Changes:

    * This is the beginning of offical releases. (2004-12-23)
    * Now called Facets.
    * Changed layout to be completely atomic! (2004-10-30)


== 0.4.0

Raspberry

Changes:

    * Scoured the Ruby world for useful additions.
    * Changed name again from A.B.C. to Raspberry.
      I can't seem to settle on a name. Even the new
      subsections have changed five times. (2004-08-08)
    * Adjusted Tuple to use Tuple::[*args] instead of ::new, which now takes
      a single argument instead, either an Array or a String which it splits.
    * Removed services.rb unitl in gets fixed and a better name.


== 0.3.3

Mega2

Changes:

    * Added inheritable.rb, a lib for creating class vars inherit from ancestors
    * Addes annotations.rb, a lightweight metadata system good for annotating
      methods esspecially. It is built on top of inheritable.rb.


== 0.3.2

Mega

Changes:

    * Added services.rb, a lib for managing methods as first class objects
    * Fixed/cleaned-up orm_supprt.rb

== 0.3.1

Changes:

    * Aliased #autoload_classes with #autorequire.
    * Added #strfbits and #strfbytes to binary_multiplers.rb.


== 0.3.0

ABC

Changes:

    * Reorganinzed all of this together in a nice neat way.
    * Changed name of library from Succ to A.B.C.
      which stands for All Base Common. (2004-02-02)
    * Name change to Mega Modules!
    * Added a few important files: multipliers.rb, binary_multipliers.rb,
      time_in_english.rb and orm_inlectors.rb.
    * Each one of these is a "Methods Module", i.e. They are a collection of
      closely related methods that modify one or more core classes/modules.
      Individually these methods could have very well ended up in Nano Methods,
      but given there quantity and interrelation they were more suitable to a
      module, and thus placed here.


== 0.2.0

Succ

Changes:

    * A number of new methods added.
    * Renamed it Succ for "successor". (2003-05-31)
    * Initial public release


== 0.1.0

Carats

Changes:

    * Early Development as Ruby Carats


== 0.0.0

TomsLib

Changes:

    * Tomslib's just a few useful methods. (2002-07-01)

