= OpenHash

An OpenHash is a Hash that provides +open+ access to its entries via method
calls. Writers (methods ending in =-marks) assign entries. Methods without
special puncuation will retrieve entries. 

  require 'hashery/openhash'

  o = OpenHash.new
  o.a = 1
  o.b = 2
  o.a.assert == 1
  o.b.assert == 2

Writers always use a Symbol for keys in the underlying Hash.

  o.to_h.assert == { :a=>1, :b=>2 }

All the usual Hash methods are still available in an OpenHash.

  o.map{ |k,v| [k,v] }

And they are protected from being overridden by writers.

  o.map = 3
  o.map{ |k,v| [k,v] }

Even so, the underlying Hash object does contain the entry even 
when it can not be accessed via a reader method.

  o.to_h.assert == {:a=>1, :b=>2, :map=>3 }

For some usecases it may be necessary to give up access to one or
more Hash methods in favor of access to the hash entries. This can
be done using the #omit! method.

  o.omit!(:map, :merge)
  o.map.assert == 3
  o.merge = 4
  o.merge.assert == 4

Becuase of nature of a writer, a certain set of Hash methods are always
protected, namely any of those ending in a puctuation mark. In addition,
the implementation protects all shadow methods (e.g. __id__).

  o.__id__ = 4
  o.__id__.assert! == 4

Even though writers alwasy use Symbols as keys, because an OpenHash
is a true Hash object, any object can be used as a key internally.

  o = OpenHash.new
  o[nil] = "Nothing"
  o.to_h.assert == { nil=>"Nothing" }

It simply will not be accessible via a reader method.

